Hey, look at that, here comes Joe again, stage left this time:
Oh, here we are, back at BigCo, with Joe and me, once more on the big web site conversion project.
Only this time, imagine it just a little bit differently.
Instead of shirking from commitments, the technical staff actually makes them. Instead of shirking from estimates or letting someone else do the planning (then complaining about it), the technical team actually self-organizes and makes real commitments.
Now imagine that the staff is actually working together. When the programmers are blocked by operations, they pick up the phone and the sysadmin actually gets started on the work.
When Joe comes by to light a fire to get ticket 14321 worked on, he doesn’t need to; he can see that the DBA is working diligently, not surfing the web. Likewise, the estimates he gets from staff seem downright consistent, and he doesn’t get the feeling that the project is in priority somewhere between lunch and checking email. All the tricks and attempts to manipulate the schedule are not met with, “We’ll try,” but instead, “That’s our commitment; if you want to make up your own goals, feel free.”
After a while, I suspect Joe would start to think of the technical team as, well, professionals. And he’d be right.
Those steps to transform your behavior from technician to professional? You’ll find them in the rest of the book.
Welcome to the next step in your career; I suspect you are going to like it.

                PRE-REQUISITE INTRODUCTION
 The next day I got my deck back. It was wrapped in a listing of the results of the run and kept together with a rubber band. (We used lots of rubber bands in those days!)
I opened the listing and saw that my compile had failed. The error messages in the listing were very difficult for me to understand, so I took it to my supervisor. He looked it over, mumbled under his breath, made some quick notes on the listing, grabbed my deck and then told me to follow him.
He took me up to the keypunch room and sat at a vacant keypunch machine. One by one he corrected the cards that were in error, and added one or two other cards. He quickly explained what he was doing, but it all went by like a flash.
He took the new deck up to the computer room and knocked at the door. He said some magic words to one of the operators, and then walked into the computer room behind him. He beckoned for me to follow. The operator set up the tape drives and loaded the deck while we watched. The tapes spun, the printer chattered, and then it was over. The program had worked.
The next day my supervisor thanked me for my help, and terminated my employment. Apparently ASC didn’t feel they had the time to nurture a 17-year-old.
But my connection with ASC was hardly over. A few months later I got a full- time second-shift job at ASC operating off-line printers. These printers printed junk mail from print images that were stored on tape. My job was to load the printers with paper, load the tapes into the tape drives, fix paper jams, and otherwise just watch the machines work.
The year was 1970. College was not an option for me, nor did it hold any particular enticements. The Viet Nam war was still raging, and the campuses were chaotic. I had continued to inhale books on COBOL, Fortran, PL/1, PDP-8, and IBM 360 Assembler. My intent was to bypass school and drive as hard as I could to get a job programming.
